OSDOCS-6273: Adding packet drop tracking to NetObserv (#63245)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-packet-drops.adoc

//
// network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-packet-drops_{context}"]
= Working with packet drops
Packet loss occurs when one or more packets of network flow data fail to reach their destination. You can track these drops by enabling the `spec.agent.ebpf.enablePktDrop` and `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specifications in the `FlowCollector`.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for the *NetObserv Operator*, select *Flow Collector*. 
. Select *cluster* then select the *YAML* tab.
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource so that `spec.agent.ebpf.enablePktDrop` and `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specifications to `true`. A sample configuration is as follows:
+
[id="network-observability-flowcollector-configuring-dns_{context}"]
.Configure `FlowCollector` for packet drops
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: DIRECT
  agent:
    type: EBPF
    ebpf:
      enablePktDrop: true                <1>

>       sampling: 50 
>       logLevel: info                          

Reviewer: ```suggestion     
```

      privileged: true                   <1>
----

> <1> You can set the `spec.agent.ebpf.enablePktDrop` and `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specifications to `true` to enable reporting of packet drops of each network flow in the web console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> You can set the `spec.agent.ebpf.enablePktDrop` to enable reporting of packet drops of each network flow in the web console. Note that `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specifications must be `true` to make it work.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> // network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// * network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc
```

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-packet-drops_{context}"]
= Working with packet drops
Packet loss occurs when one or more packets of network flow data fail to reach their destination. You can track these drops by editing the `FlowCollector` to the specifications in the following YAML example.

> +

Reviewer 2: Don't need this one here:
```suggestion

```

[IMPORTANT]
====
CPU and memory usage increases when this feature is enabled.
====

.Prerequisites
* Access to an {product-title} cluster with version 4.13. 
* Kernel supported by Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9.2.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for the *NetObserv Operator*, select *Flow Collector*. 

> . Select *cluster* then select the *YAML* tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select *cluster*, and then select the *YAML* tab.
```

> . Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource. A sample configuration is as follows:
> +
> [id="network-observability-flowcollector-configuring-pkt-drop_{context}"]
> .Configure `FlowCollector` for packet drops

Reviewer 2: Just a maybe-suggestion:
```suggestion
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource for packet drops, for example:
+
[id="network-observability-flowcollector-configuring-pkt-drop_{context}"]
.Example `FlowCollector` configuration
```

[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster

> namespace: netobserv

Reviewer 3: there is spec here, the YAML should look like

apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
     name: cluster
spec:
   namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: DIRECT
  agent:
    type: EBPF
    ebpf:
      enablePktDrop: true
      privileged: true

Author: Addressed.

  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: DIRECT
  agent:
    type: EBPF
    ebpf:
      features:
       - PacketDrop            <1>                         
      privileged: true       <2>
----
<1> You can start reporting the packet drops of each network flow by listing the `PacketDrop` parameter in the `spec.agent.ebpf.features` specification list.   

> <2> Note that additionally, the `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specification value must be `true` for packet drop tracking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> Additionally, the `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specification value must be `true` for packet drop tracking.
```
or even just:
```suggestion
<2> The `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specification value must be `true` for packet drop tracking.
```

Author: Ah, yeah you're right there. I will just use "The"

> . When you refresh the *Network Traffic* page, there are new choices to enable in the *Overview*, *Traffic Flow*, and *Topology* views. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. When you refresh the *Network Traffic* page, there are new choices to enable in the *Overview*, *Traffic Flow*, and *Topology* views:
```

> . When you refresh the *Network Traffic* page, there are new choices to enable in the *Overview*, *Traffic Flow*, and *Topology* views. 

Reviewer 2: This might alternatively work as a Verification step, too:
```suggestion
.Verification

 * When you refresh the *Network Traffic* page, there are new choices to enable in the *Overview*, *Traffic Flow*, and *Topology* views:
```

> .. The *Overview* view has new choices in *Manage panels* that you can select to see graphical visualizations of the packet drops.

Reviewer 2: Per UI guidelines, I am not sure if all "see" should be "view" (could be overthinking it), but, something to consider throughout.
```suggestion
.. The *Overview* view has new choices in *Manage panels* that you can select to view graphical visualizations of the packet drops.
```

.. The *Traffic flows* view, new choices are available in *Manage columns* to add packet drop information to the table data. In the *Traffic Flows* view, you can also expand the side panel to see more information about packet drops. 

> .. In the *Topology* view, you can see red lines where drops are present.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. In the *Topology* view, red lines are displayed where drops are present.
```

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-packet-drops_{context}"]
= Working with packet drops
Packet loss occurs when one or more packets of network flow data fail to reach their destination. You can track these drops by enabling the `spec.agent.ebpf.features` and `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specifications in the `FlowCollector`.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====
Cpu and memory usage increases when this feature is enabled.
====

.Prerequisites
* Access to an {product-title} cluster with version 4.13. 
* Kernel supported by Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9.2.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for the *NetObserv Operator*, select *Flow Collector*. 
. Select *cluster* then select the *YAML* tab.
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource. A sample configuration is as follows:
+
[id="network-observability-flowcollector-configuring-pkt-drop_{context}"]
.Configure `FlowCollector` for packet drops
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: DIRECT
  agent:
    type: EBPF
    ebpf:

>       features: PKT_DROP            <1>                         

Reviewer 3: features is a list config; so it should be 
features:
- "PKT_DROP"

Author: Ah, got it. TY!

Author: Sorry I think I initially misunderstood this comment to mean I needed to have PKT_DROP in quotes. I now realize it should be 
`features:
   - PKT_DROP`

      privileged: true              <2>
----

> <1> You can set the `spec.agent.ebpf.feature` to `PKT_DROP` enable reporting of packet drops of each network flow in the web console. 

Reviewer 3: similarly has to reflect that its a list

Author: Ok I addressed here and will also address in the DNS PR. TY for mentioning this!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-packet-drops_{context}"]
= Working with packet drops

> Packet loss occurs when one or more packets of network flow data fail to reach their destination. You can track these drops by enabling the `spec.agent.ebpf.features` and `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specifications in the `FlowCollector`.

Reviewer 3: since `spec.agent.ebpf.features` is a list, it should not have enabled right?

Author: Right, I guess enabling isn't the right adverb here, it should be "You can track these drops by listing the `PacketDrop` parameter in the `spec.agent.ebof.features` list

Reviewer 3: How about `by adding to the feature list section` ? Or something on those lines?

+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Cpu and memory usage increases when this feature is enabled.

Reviewer 3: CPU can be all caps(unless thats not how it is in docs)

====

.Prerequisites
* Access to an {product-title} cluster with version 4.13. 
* Kernel supported by Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9.2.

.Procedure
. In the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *Installed Operators*.
. Under the *Provided APIs* heading for the *NetObserv Operator*, select *Flow Collector*. 
. Select *cluster* then select the *YAML* tab.
. Configure the `FlowCollector` custom resource. A sample configuration is as follows:
+
[id="network-observability-flowcollector-configuring-pkt-drop_{context}"]
.Configure `FlowCollector` for packet drops
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  namespace: netobserv
  deploymentModel: DIRECT
  agent:
    type: EBPF
    ebpf:
      features:

>        - PKT_DROP            <1>                         

Reviewer 3: I think its now changed to `PacketsDrop`

Author: 🤦‍♀️ is DNS also changed?

Author: I'm realizing now actually that I noticed this last week on Thursday because I see it written in my notebook to change PKT_DRP again but then I misplaced this jotted note so TY for keeping me straight here.

Reviewer 3: yup look at [PR#394](https://github.com/netobserv/network-observability-operator/pull/394/files#diff-f56c4ef1268ddd69d4da318cd3ffc855de718f70c7de5de760fd18ef69f79aebR18) but seems like they have introduced a bug while renaming DNSTracking and missed an `r`

Reviewer 3: No worries, happy to help!

      privileged: true       <2>
----

> <1> You can start reporting the packet drops of each network flow by listing the `PacketsDrop` parameter in the `spec.agent.ebpf` specification list.   

Reviewer 3: `spec.agent.ebpf.features`

Author: whoops, I guess I accidentally removed the `feature` 😬

> <1> You can set the `spec.agent.ebpf.feature` to "`PKT_DROP`" enable reporting of packet drops of each network flow in the web console. 

Reviewer 3: same comment here regarding it being a list

> <2> Note that the `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specification value must be `true` for packet drop tracking to be enabled.

Reviewer 3: No need of `packet drop tracking to be enabled.` It can just be  `Note that the `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specification value must also be set to `true``

Author: Addressed

Author: @Amoghrd I changed the text to "Note that the `spec.agent.ebpf.privileged` specification value must be `true` for packet drop tracking."

Author: Discussed with Amogh to add "Additionally" here.

. When you refresh the *Network Traffic* page, there are new choices to enable in the *Overview*, *Traffic Flow*, and *Topology* views. 
.. The *Overview* view has new choices in *Manage panels* that you can select to see graphical visualizations of the packet drops.
.. The *Traffic flows* view, new choices are available in *Manage columns* to add packet drop information to the table data. In the *Traffic Flows* view, you can also expand the side panel to see more information about packet drops. 
.. In the *Topology* view, you can see red lines where drops are present. 

> 

Reviewer 3: There are also some extra lines here, dont know if they are necessary

Author: They aren't necessary. I removed.
